# House Rules
*Version 15.12.6*

The following rules have been established by Brave New World LLC
(“BNW”) to promote smooth functioning of our cooperative household and
workspace, and to protect our tenants, members, guests, their
property, BNW, and the building itself.

BNW may change or add to these rules at its discretion. Updates will
be announced by email and in the #general channel in Slack.



## Common areas

“Common areas” means all parts of the building except private spaces
leased or assigned to particular individuals. This includes communal
fridge space and kitchen countertops.

Do not leave anything in the common areas unless it is both (1)
intended for use by others, and (2) actually useful to others.

When you use a common area, leave it clean, even if it was not clean
when you came upon it. Sweep floors, pick up trash, wipe down
countertops and sinks, clean up sawdust and paint spills. Leave it in
a state that would make a visitor say, “Wow, this place is clean and
well organized!” even if the person before you did not follow that
rule. Don’t allow walls or floors to be damaged.

BNW is not liable or responsible in any way for the loss, theft, or
damage of any items left in common areas. Other than bicycles, items
left in common areas will be considered donations to BNW unless prior
arrangements have been made in writing.



## Having nice things

One of our goals is to “have nice things” – in other words, to be able
to trust that easily damaged items can exist in common areas without
them, in fact, being damaged.

Treat everything in the common areas as if you bought it and want to
keep it nice. If you do not know exactly how much something cost,
assume that it cost ten times more than you could possibly imagine,
because that may be literally true of some thing that you may find
around the space, from furniture to dishes to tools to electronics to
art supplies to exotic teas.

If you encounter an unfamiliar tool – whether a cast iron pan or
kitchen gadget, a laser cutter or band saw, or a piece of heavy
machinery or aerial rigging – do not try to “learn by doing” unless
you are completely sure that there is no possible way that you could
damage or misuse the tool. Assume that there are hidden gotchas: cast
iron pans look like normal pans, but are ruined by soap. All drill
bits look more or less the same, but some are expensive and can be
destroyed very quickly if used in the wrong material, at the wrong
speed, or without proper lubricant.

If you’re not completely sure, you can’t use the tool until you find a
skilled person to teach you. Asking on #help in Slack will often
work. “Completely sure” should usually mean formal training or
professional experience, enough to have a good grasp not just of your
skills but more importantly your limitations. When in doubt,
ask. We’re here to help.

If you damage something or otherwise get in over your head, it is your
obligation to let someone know and get help. Posting to #maintenance
on Slack is sufficient unless there is a time critical problem or
safety issue. Breaking something is not a big deal; we understand that
accidents happen and plan on that basis. Not posting it to Slack is
regarded as dishonesty and is a much bigger deal. This applies to
broken tools, drinks spilled on furniture, scratched walls, broken
dishes, and anything else that can get messed up in the common spaces.



## Your unit

You are free to customize and build out your private space, subject to
the limits laid out in the lease, provided that the changes are such
that you can restore your unit to its original condition in no more
than a day of work and at a cost of no more than $100. You agree to do
this before you move out if requested by BNW. This includes filling
and painting any holes that you have made in the walls so that they
are not visible.

You are very much encouraged to make more dramatic changes to your
space, but you need to get written permission from BNW first, which
will include working out what will happen when you move out.

You are responsible for any damage to your unit, including damage
caused by mistakes or poor choices while building out your space, or
damage caused by outside contractors that you hire. This includes the
cost of redoing the work correctly or replacing any damaged
property. When in doubt, get help.



## Kitchen

The following rules apply to the communal kitchen:

Dishes must never be left unattended in the sinks for any reason, no
matter how good that reason seems. Dirty dishes can go in the
dishwasher, or they can be washed and put on the drying rack, or they
can be put in your room until you’re ready to deal with them. But they
can’t ever go in the sink.

Private food (in private fridge bins and cabinets) is sacrosanct. Do
not take anyone else’s stuff without asking them first.

Do not leave rotting or expired food in the kitchen, even in your
private area. Nasty food is fair game for anyone to throw away.

All food in the fridges and freezers should be in a reasonably
airtight container (unless it is something like an apple or an egg
that is itself an airtight container). An ample supply of ziploc bags
is available for your convenience.

Leave the kitchen clean when you’re done using it, even if it wasn’t
clean to begin with. Wipe down counters, clean out sinks, put away
dishes. The kitchen should look great for the next person.

Load the dishwashers correctly. Nobody should have to take out and
re-load your dishes, or hand wash them because the dishwasher could
not clean them.

Don’t put big pots, pans, and bowls in the dishwasher. Anything that
would take up a huge chunk of dishwasher space will have to be hand
washed.



## Food storage

Food must be stored only in the kitchens. Nothing should be stored in
your room that could attract pests such as mice or fruit flies.



## Consumables

Consumables range from paint and paper, to rice and salt, to 3D
printer resin. Feel free to use a small amount of common area
consumables. However, if you need a significant quantity, you will
need to get your own supply or make arrangements to chip in on the
cost. And if you use the last of a consumable, it is your
responsibility to make sure that more is purchased.

Putting salt on your food is reasonable. Building a 10 foot tall
sculpture out of salt will require the purchase of your own salt. A
good rule of thumb is to limit your use of consumables to a total of
$20 worth of consumables per month, but be aware that some consumables
are far more expensive than you might assume. Saffron looks much like
any other spice but costs $1500 a pound. Correctly used in small
quantities for cooking it is no more expensive than any other spice,
but it should not be used as a crafting material.

BNW-owned consumables are provided as a gift to you from BNW. They are
not part of your lease and BNW is under no obligation to continue
providing them. Should BNW stop providing this gift, you are not
entitled to any refund or reduction in rent.



## Trash

In most buildings of our size trash disappears as if by magic. This
“magic” is actually a hardworking janitorial staff. In the spirit of
our cooperative community and to keep costs down, we do not have such
a staff, so we all have to do a little bit more work than we may be
accustomed to in “magic” buildings.

Don’t leave trash anywhere except a trashcan. And when you fill up a
trashcan, you must empty it by taking the trash to the trash room and
putting in a new bag. If you don’t have time to do this then you can’t
use that particular trash can. We should never see overfull trashcans
where the lid can’t close or the trash is heaped over the top edge of
the bin.

When putting a new bag in a trashcan, find a bag that matches the old
bag, and secure it in the same way that the old bag was secured (often
with a special rubber band). Unless the person before you messed it
up, in which case fix it. Never leave a trashcan without a bag because
that inevitably creates a mess that someone else will have to clean
up.

In the trash room, all trash must go in the large collection bins, and
the lids of the large bins must close. Nothing at all can ever be left
on the floor of the trash room. If the bins in the trash room are
full, your options are to take the trash to the dump yourself or not
throw anything away for a while.

The only exception to the above is cardboard boxes that have been
broken down, cut into 2’x2’ sections, and bundled with tape or twine
into tight packets that can be easily carried to the curb. These can
be left in the trash room. The necessary tools are on a small
shelf. Cardboard boxes can also go into recycling bin if they are
broken down flat and are small enough to fit.

Trash space is a shared resource. Limit yourself to a fair share. If
your trash or recycling would consume a significant fraction of our
trash pickup capacity, you’ll have to find another way to dispose of
it.



## Mail

Please pick up your mail and packages within a week.

BNW is not responsible for the loss or damage of mail, packages, or
anything else delivered to or left at the entrances of the building.



## Smoking

No tobacco smoking is allowed in the building. This is the law in SF
and it is also the preference of our community. You can smoke on the
outside deck on the second floor. If you break this rule and smoke in
your room, you are responsible for cleaning costs which may be
substantial.

Smoking marijuana indoors is not allowed. Our ventilation system
rapidly circulates the scent throughout the building which some
non-smokers find distracting. There may be some circumstances, such as
parties, where marijuana smoking might be appropriate (to the extent
permitted by current law and by any other provisions in your
lease). Use good judgement and stop if anyone complains.



## Energy

Turn off lights in areas of the building that aren’t in use. If you
are the last one using the first floor at night, turn off all of the
lights when you are done.

Don’t waste water, gas, or electricity. Keep the windows closed when
it is cold outside.

Turn off the hydronic heat in your unit when it is warm outside. (Open
each access panel – you may have more than one – and rotate both
handles so that they make a 90 degree angle with the pipe.)

Be careful when using hot water. The water heater may be set to a
hotter than normal temperature and the hot water may scald you.



## Safety

First aid kits and fire extinguishers are located on both the first
and second floor. Learn their locations.

Do not leave burning candles unattended.



## Laundry

Use the laundry facilities in a safe, sane, and consensual manner. Do
not wash anything or make any laundry choices that will damage the
machines or other people’s clothes. Remove your laundry from the
machines promptly.

You use the laundry machines at your own risk. BNW is not responsible
for any lost, stolen, or damaged items.



## Pets

Pets are not currently allowed. However, we might allow pets in the future.



## Guests and events

You are responsible for your guests. For example, if you invite a
guest over, you are responsible for making sure that they do not leave
any dishes in the sinks.

An event is anytime you invite a group of people over and they’re not
hanging out or working with you personally (for example, they’re
socializing with each other rather than with you). Events must be
scheduled and approved in advance and put on the shared Google
calendar. You’re responsible for all event participants just as you
are for guests, and unless you’ve made other arrangements, you’re
responsible for cleaning the space after the event. Event planning can
quickly become very complicated when outside parties are involved, if
the general public is invited, or if any money is changing hands.

Although events must normally be prearranged, there’s one
exception. If you want to have an impromptu, unplanned, unpaid
gathering of up to 20 friends, that is OK as long as you ask in Slack
first and nobody objects. You’re responsible for keeping an eye on
your guests and ensuring that they do not bother anyone in the space
or conflict with anyone’s pre-existing plans, even if nobody objected
in Slack. If anyone has a problem with your guests, you are expected
to fix the problem or take the party somewhere else without
complaint. It is better to plan in advance if at all possible.



## Guests in your unit

Guests in your private space may include overnight guests or project
collaborators and are limited as described in your lease. Permission
to have guests beyond these limits must be in writing and can be
revoked at any time.

No one can be a guest with us for more than two weeks total in a
calendar year without a written agreement, even if the time is divided
between several units.

Bona fide significant others have permission to visit as frequently as
you want, provided that they have a permanent residence (where they
pay rent and receive mail) within 50 miles of the building and they
sleep there at least two nights a week. This permission can be
withdrawn if there are conflicts between the SO and other tenants or
if there are any other problems. Not all SOs will get along with all
tenants, so use good judgment and foresight to avoid problems. You are
responsible for your SO’s behavior just as with any guest.

(Fowler’s Dictionary of Modern English Usage defines “significant
other” as “a person with whom someone has an established romantic or
sexual relationship.”)

You can give copies of your keys to your guests, but you must get
those copies back when they stop being your guests. You must return
all copies that you have made of your keys to BNW upon request. If you
are not able to do this and the result is that a lock needs to be
changed, you are responsible for the cost.



## Subletting

Subletting is not allowed without prior written permission. BNW’s
current policy is to grant permission to sublet for up to two months
when the other tenants in the building have had a chance to meet the
sublessee and do not object, and when the sublessee meets BNW’s normal
criteria for tenants. If you are hoping to sublet your room, be aware
that it may take a long time to find a suitable sublessee that is
acceptable to all other tenants.

Also, it is currently BNW’s policy that once a sublet ends, the
sublessee must move out of the building for at least two months before
they can be considered for permanent residency or for another
sublet. This is to avoid pressure to short-circuit the normal resident
selection process.

These policies may change and BNW reserves the right to deny any
sublet request for any reason or for no reason.



## Conduct & Conflicts

If someone is doing something that bothers you, go talk to them and
let them know what’s bothering you. If someone comes to you with
concerns, listen to and try to understand their point of view.

If you can’t work out a conflict, enlist a third party to help
mediate. If nothing works, email conduct@monument.house to ask for
help.

We are a values-based membership organization and among our values are
love and critical thinking. All members are expected to uphold a high
standard of conduct at all times and set a good example for others
both inside and outside of our group. “Conduct unbecoming a member,”
such as dishonesty or an unwillingness to work with others
empathetically to see other points of view and find fair resolutions
to conflicts, may lead to eviction or nonrenewal of your lease.



## Harassment

We value free speech, growth, innovation, risk taking, the radical
pursuit of new ideas and unusual experiences, and confrontation and
critical examination of any and all established patterns of
thought. As such, you may encounter words and behaviors in the space
that you disagree with and that you may occasionally find offensive,
challenging, shocking, indecent, or infuriating. Sometimes art is
valuable *specifically because* it is calculated to shock, offend,
threaten, or troll its audience.

However, harassment of any kind will not be tolerated. Harassment
includes, but is not limited to, mean-spirited behavior directed at a
particular individual or group, unwelcome sexual attention or physical
contact, physical or emotional abuse, and any course of action whose
end goal is to marginalize, annoy, or coerce another person.

Harassment should be reported to BNW by emailing
conduct@monument.house, whether you are the object of the harassment
or an observer of it. After consideration of the facts and
circumstances, BNW will make a determination, in its sole discretion,
as to whether the behavior constitutes harassment and will notify you
in writing of its decision. If harassment, BNW will notify you of its
action plan which will include demanding the harasser(s) to stop the
objectionable behavior and other remedies as necessary and available.

You agree that if BNW determines your behavior to be harassment, you
will stop it immediately even if you disagree with BNW’s
decision. Continuing the behavior may lead to your eviction as
permitted by law, as will a continued pattern of harassment over a
period of time.

If you do not feel comfortable making the distinction between
potentially offensive speech and harassment and do not want to be held
accountable for making this judgement correctly, you are advised to
behave as you would in a professional setting and avoid doing anything
that might make anyone feel uncomfortable or unsafe.



## Law Enforcement

You are not authorized to give any law enforcement officer permission
to enter the building or to conduct any kind of search. If they ask,
insist that they talk to Geoff rather than to you. You can give them
Geoff’s phone number (617-417-0611).

The purpose of this rule is not to condone illegal activity or to
protect anyone from the consequences of their actions. It is to make
it clear that each person speaks only for themselves and may not waive
the rights of other people in the building.



## Neighbors

Do not give anyone permission to hang out in the entrances to the
building, or to smoke within 25 feet of the building, or to open our
trash or recycling bins. If you notice anyone doing these things,
point out the “no trespassing”, “no loitering”, and “no smoking” signs
and tell them that they need to leave. If they do not leave or if they
come back, call the SF Police non-emergency number at (415) 553-0123
and ask for a “passing call”, meaning that the police will drive by
and tell them to knock it off.

These extreme measures are necessary to maintain good relationships
with our neighbors, who have organized the Grace Washburn neighborhood
association to (in their view) improve conditions in the area. If we
don’t call the police, they will, and they will be mad at us. Neighbor
goodwill is one of the most valuable assets we can have so do not
endanger it.

If a neighbor comes by to express concerns, immediately get Geoff if
he is home. Otherwise, get as much information as you can, including
the person’s complete contact information and send it to Geoff on
Slack. Make the neighbor feel listened to and express sympathy, but
refer them to Geoff rather than making any commitments. Do not let
them into the building.



## Chores

If and when a communal chore system is instituted, all tenants will be
expected to faithfully carry out their chores. Participating in the
chore system is part of your obligation as a tenant and consistently
failing to do so may lead to your eviction.



## Community service

The Monument community service commitment (currently one hour a month)
is also part of your obligation as tenant and failure to honor this
commitment may also lead to eviction.



## Enforcement

“Doveryai, no proveryai” – “Trust, but verify”. We trust you to follow
the above rules. If the rules are not being followed, we will
investigate as necessary to determine what is happening, with an
attitude of curiosity and problem solving rather than blame. When we
identify the responsible party (if there is one), our approach will be
to listen, assist, and educate, and to re-engineer problematic
processes, not to shame or punish.

However, we believe that the rules above are necessary, and a
consistent unwillingness or inability to follow them can only lead to
the departure of a person from our community. Our commitment is to
create an environment in which everyone is confident that everyone
else will follow the rules, so that they can trust that their own
efforts will be reciprocated.



## Closing thoughts

Be strict in what you expect from yourself, and generous in what you
expect from others.

To resolve most problems, empathy and good communication is both
necessary and sufficient.

Mistakes and oversights happen. A good system should be robust to
them. Rules should conform to the needs of people, not the other way
around.

When someone raises their voice it’s often an indication that they
have a problem that they don’t know how to solve. Shouting rarely
solves that problem. In a small community, the purpose of rules should
be to clarify expectations, rather than to coerce people into behaving
in ways that do not come naturally.

This is a living document. Your feedback and suggestions are very
welcome and will help to shape future versions.






**Initial here to show that you have received the current version of
  the House Rules:**


___________